there are two
powerful phenomena unfolding on earth
the rise of global warming and the rise
of women
and girls the link between them
is often overlooked but gender equity
is a key answer to our planetary
challenge
let me explain for the last few years i
have been working on an effort called
project
drawdown our team has scoured humanity's
wisdom
for solutions to draw down heat trapping
climate changing emissions in the
atmosphere
not someday maybe if we're lucky
solutions
the 80 best practices and technologies
already in hand clean renewable energy
including solar and wind
green buildings both new and retrofitted
efficient transportation from brazil to
china
thriving ecosystems through protection
and restoration reducing waste
and reclaiming its value growing
food in good ways that regenerate
soil shifting diets
to less meat more plants
and equity for women and girls
gender and climate are inextricably
linked
drawing down emissions depends
on rising up
first a bit of context we are in a
situation
of urgency severity and scope
never before faced by humankind
so far our response isn't anywhere close
to adequate you already know that
you know it in your gut in your bones
we are each part of the planet's living
systems
knitted together with almost 7.7
billion human beings and 1.8 million
known species we can
feel the connections between us
we can feel the brokenness and the
closing window
to heal it this earth
our home is telling us that a better way
of being
must emerge and fast
in my experience to have eyes wide open
is to hold a broken heart every day
it's a grief that i rarely speak
though my work calls on the power of
voice
i remind myself that the heart can
simply break
or it can break open a broken
open heart is awake and alive and calls
for action
it is regenerative like nature
reclaiming ruined ground growing anew
life moves inexorably toward more life
toward healing toward wholeness
that's a fundamental ecological truth
and we all of us
we are life force
on the face of it the primary link
between women girls and a warming world
is not life but death awareness
is growing that climate impacts hit
women and girls hardest
given existing vulnerabilities there is
greater risk of displacement
higher odds of being injured or killed
during a natural disaster
prolonged drought can precipitate early
marriage
as families contend with scarcity
floods can force last resort
prostitution
as women struggle to make ends meet the
list goes on
and goes wide these dynamics are most
acute under conditions of poverty
from new orleans to nairobi
too often the story ends here but not
today
another empowering truth begs to be seen
if we gain ground on gender equity
we also gain ground on addressing global
warming
this connection comes to light in three
key areas
three areas where we can secure the
rights of women and girls
shore up resilience and divert emissions
at the same time
women are the primary farmers of the
world
they produce sixty to eighty percent of
food in lower income countries
often operating on fewer than five acres
that's what the term smallholder means
compared with men women small holders
have
less access to resources including land
rights
credit and capital training tools and
technology
they farm as capably and efficiently as
men
but this well-documented disparity in
resources and rights
means women produce less food on the
same amount of land
close those gaps and farm yields rise by
20 to 30 percent
that means 20 to 30 percent more food
from the same garden
or the same field the implications for
hunger for health for household income
they're obvious let's follow the thread
to climate
we humans need land to grow food
unfortunately forests are often cleared
to supply it
and that causes emissions from
deforestation
but if existing farms produce enough
food
forests are less likely to be lost so
there's a ripple effect
support women smallholders realize
higher yields
avoid deforestation and sustain the
life-giving power
of forests project drawdown estimates
that addressing
inequity in agriculture could prevent 2
billion tons of emissions
between now and 2050. that's on par
with the impact household recycling can
have globally
addressing this inequity can also help
women cope
with the challenges of growing food as
the climate changes
there is life force in cultivation
at last count 130 million girls are
still denied their basic right to attend
school
gaps are greatest in secondary school
classrooms
too many girls are missing a vital
foundation for life
education means better health for women
and their children
better financial security greater agency
at home and in society more capacity to
navigate
a climate changing world education
can mean options adaptability
strength it can also mean lower
emissions
for a variety of reasons when we have
more years of education
we typically choose to marry later and
to have fewer children
so our families end up being smaller
what happens at the individual level
adds up across the world and over time
one by one by one the right to go to
school
impacts how many human beings live on
this planet
and impact its living systems
that's not why girls should be educated
it's one meaningful outcome
education is one side of a coin the
other
is family planning access to high
quality voluntary reproductive health
care
to have children by choice rather than
chance is a matter of autonomy and
dignity
yet in the u.s 45 percent of pregnancies
are unintended
214 million women in lower income
countries say they want to decide
whether and when to become pregnant
but aren't using contraception listening
to women's needs
addressing those needs advancing equity
and well-being
those must be the aims of family
planning period
curbing the growth of our human
population is a side effect
though a potent one it could
dramatically reduce demand for
food transportation electricity
buildings goods and all the rest thereby
reducing
emissions close the gaps on access to
education and family planning
and by mid-century we may find 1 billion
fewer people inhabiting earth
than we would if we do nothing more
according to project drawdown 1 billion
fewer people could mean we avoid
nearly 120 billion tons of emissions
at that level of impact gender equity
is a top solution to restore a climate
fit for life
at that level of impact gender equity is
on par
with wind turbines and solar panels
and forests there is life force in
learning
and life force in choice
now let me be clear this does not mean
women and girls are responsible for
fixing everything
though we probably will
equity for women in agriculture
education and family planning these are
solutions within a system
of drawdown solutions together they
comprise a blueprint of possibility
and let me be even clearer about this
population
cannot be seen in isolation from
production
or consumption some segments of the
human family
cause exponentially greater harm while
others suffer outsized injustice
the most affluent we are the most
accountable
we have the most to do
the gender climate connection extends
beyond negative impacts and beyond
powerful solutions
women are vital voices and agents for
change
on this planet and yet we're too often
missing or even barred from the
proverbial table
we're too often ignored or silenced when
we speak we are too often passed over
when plans are laid or investments made
according to one analysis just
point two percent of philanthropic funds
go specifically toward women
and the environment nearly 110
million dollars globally the sum spent
by one man on a single basquiat painting
last year
these dynamics are not only unjust they
are setting us up for failure
to rapidly radically reshape society
we need every solution and every solver
every mind every bit of heart
every set of hands we often crave
a simple call to action but this
challenge
demands more than a fact sheet and more
than a checklist
we need to function more like an
ecosystem
finding strength in our diversity
you know what your superpowers are
you're an educator farmer
healer creator campaigner wisdom keeper
how might you link arms where you are
to move solutions forward there is one
role i want to ask that all of you play
the role of messenger this is a time of
great awakening
we need to break the silence around the
condition
of our planet move beyond manufactured
debates
about climate science share solutions
speak truth with a broken open heart
teach that to address climate change we
must make gender equity a reality
and in the face of a seemingly
impossible challenge
women and girls are a fierce source of
possibility
it is a magnificent thing to be alive
in a moment that matters so much
this earth our home
is calling for us to be bold
reminding us we are all in this together
women men people of all gender
identities
all beings we are
life force one earth
one chance let's seize it
thank you